When you are working in painter you are working with a combination of brush settings and material setup.  Click on
menu sets to collapse and hide parts halfway or all the way. Alphas can be dragged and dropped in to the menu set. 
Change the angle of the alpha in the menu set as well.  Paint in the UV view and the stroke will be extended across
UV borders.  If you don't want this to happen change the alignment to UV in the menus.  Drag an alpha in to stencil
to create a stencil.  To see the stencil in the viewport press the s key.  At the top of the UI there is a mirrior tool
button.  This can be aligned to the x y or z axis.  

Choose which particle brush you want to use then click the yellow button below the brush in the painter properties.  
This will activate brush settings and physics for the particle brushes.  Each particle preset has it's own settings
dialed in.  Distance time is an option that can create distance between the particles when painted on a model.  Smooth
out the paint by decreasing the distance time.  Painted particles will collide with normal geometry and normal map information.
Scratch detail can be created with the leaks particle brush.  Lower the gravity and the friction sliders to start off.
Switch particle life random all the way to one.

To start a mask create a fill layer.  Next click the button configure mask up above the layers. This gives you many
mask options.  With masks white is opaque and black is transparent.  Right click on the mask that you have painted on
and you will be able to copy it.  Paste the changes in that mask in to another mask with the right click as well.  Use
the fill brush with a particle preset to fill in certain pieces of the mask.  Click the geometry button in the top left
corner.  This will allow you to paint by UV shell or by object.  Just select the option in the properties.  In painter
you have the ability to generate a mask through an id map.  Create a layer and go to configure mask options.  Go to add
mask with color selection.  

To get to a generator choose add effect in the layer options then click add generator.  Generators can only be applied to masks.  
Maps that have been baked will be utilized every time you use a generator.  If generators overide each other use one
of the blending modes to blend them together.  Add in a paint effect from the add effect option above the layers. This can
paint on and off effects in the same layer.  Use a filter in the effects menu to blur sharpen or warp the masked layer.
Use a filter on the main layer itself with drip intensity to get a good spread effect.  Process noises with levels control
in the layer editor.  Use the histogram in the properties to adjust the roughness.  